Meta-documentation (#92)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/contributing-to-the-docs/index.md

    Give complete instructions.
    Do **not** skip any necessary steps.
    For instance, if it is necessary to save the settings before they can take effect, then clicking the "Save" button is an essential step.
    Omit any information that is **not** needed for the task at hand.

 2. Maxim of quality: be truthful.

    Check and double-check that your instructions actually work when using pretix.
    Do **not** include any factually inaccurate information.
    Do **not** include any uncertain information.
    Missing information is still better than wrong information.

 3. Maxim of relation: be relevant.

    Explain how to use pretix.
    Explain how pretix works.
    Only explain processes external to pretix if they are necessary for a feature of pretix to work.

 4. Maximum of manner: be clear.

    Write as clearly, simply, and directly as possible.
    Keep sentences short.
    Avoid obscure and complex expressions.
    Provide the steps in the exact order that the user needs to follow.
    Provide navigation instructions in order from largest (most general) to smallest (most specific).

## Best Practices: What to do when writing documentation for pretix

> What follows is an incomplete list of Best Practices, that is, things you **should** do when contributing to this documentation.

Reviewer: One wouldn't capitalize best practices unless it would be a formal title or sth. like a section heading.

```suggestion
What follows is an incomplete list of best practices, that is, things you **should** do when contributing to this documentation.
```

### Read the documentation

The more familiar you are with the documentation, the better prepared you are for contributing to it.
In addition to the webpages themselves, also take a look at the source code.
Try to make your contribution look like the pages that are already there.

For an example of a comprehensive article that represents a good implementation of our guides template, take a look at the guide on [gift cards](../guides/gift-cards.md).
If you are writing a guide, try to structure your guide like the one on gift cards.
You can also use the file `template-guides.md` in the root directory of this repository.

### Contact the team

Talk to the docs team.
Create an issue on the GitHub page for [pretix-docs](https://github.com/pretix/pretix-docs/issues) or send an email to [pretix support](mailto:support@pretix.eu).

> The support team will forward your mail to the docs team.

Reviewer: > The support team will forward your mail to the docs team.

I would leave that information out. Ppl don't need to know internal processes.

The docs team will answer any questions you might have regarding your contribution.
They will be able to tell you whether it is relevant; where it fits into the established structure of the documentation; whether there are any internal resources on the subject; and so on.

You are helping the docs team a great deal by contacting them before submitting a pull request.
Reviewing a PR, fixing the formatting and discussing how it fits into the concept of the documentation is more work than discussing a few open questions ahead of time.

### Follow the instructions on writing for MkDocs

Consult the article on [writing for MkDocs](mkdocs.md).
Each type of information in this documentation has its own specific formatting.
The linked article explains how to use Markdown and MkDocs to format each type of information.

### Try it yourself

The best way to understand how to use a feature of pretix is trying to use that feature yourself.

> If you want to document, for instance, how to use the seating plan editor, log into your pretix account and use the feature editor yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to document, for instance, how to use the seating plan editor, log into your pretix account and use this feature yourself.
```

Note every step you have to take and every issue you encounter along the way.
This brings you close to a complete step-by-step guide for the feature.

### Add cross-references

One aim of this documentation is to facilitate the search for relevant information for the reader.
The first time you mention a concept or feature in an article, link to the relevant article.
Make these links informative.
For example, after mentioning gift cards in an article, insert a cross-reference such as the following:

```
For more information, see the article on [gift cards](../gift-cards.md).
```

If you are contributing a new article, check the existing documentation for mentions of the subject of your article and insert references to your article.

### Link to external documentation

Insert links to pretix blog posts, Wikipedia, third-party software documentation, legal texts, or high-quality how-to guides on other websites.
The readers of this documentation benefit from curated links to relevant information.

> That way, they do not have to search for the missing information themselves and there is a reduced risk of them encountering bad information.

Reviewer: Slightly more readable:
```suggestion That way, they do not have to search for the missing information themselves, reducing the risk that they encounter bad information.
```

Author: Github ate your suggestion :( 
I propose splitting this sentence into two: 

```suggestion
That way, they do not have to search for the missing information themselves.
This also reduces the risk of them encountering bad information.
```

# Contributing to the docs

This section of the documentation explains how the documentation itself works, how it was written, and how to contribute to it.
This is directed at both coworkers and at external contributors.

> It also serves as a reminder for the people writing the docs themselves how we do certain things, and why we decided to do them that way.

Reviewer: It's mandatory, but I would suggest to add a comma after themselves because the sentence contains a postposed explanatory element that should be set off from the preceding noun phrase so the structure is clear.

```suggestion
It also serves as a reminder for the people writing the docs themselves, how we do certain things, and why we decided to do them that way.
```

Author: This sentence is problematic on a language level and on a content level. I'm removing it.

## Our four maxims of documentation

When writing documentation for pretix, try to stick to the [maxims of conversation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cooperative_principle#Grice's_maxims) as postulated by linguist Paul Grice.
These maxims, when applied to the task of documenting pretix, entail the following:

 1. Maxim of quantity: be informative.

    Give complete instructions.
    Do **not** skip any necessary steps.
    For instance, if it is necessary to save the settings before they can take effect, then clicking the "Save" button is an essential step.
    Omit any information that is **not** needed for the task at hand.

 2. Maxim of quality: be truthful.

    Check and double-check that your instructions actually work when using pretix.
    Do **not** include any factually inaccurate information.
    Do **not** include any uncertain information.
    Missing information is still better than wrong information.

 3. Maxim of relation: be relevant.

    Explain how to use pretix.
    Explain how pretix works.
    Only explain processes external to pretix if they are necessary for a feature of pretix to work.

 4. Maximum of manner: be clear.

>     Write as clearly, simply, and straightforwardly as possible.

Reviewer: Straightforwardly is correct, but one could simply write directly.

```suggestion
    Write as clearly, simply, and directly as possible.
```

Take a look at the [vale-pretix](https://github.com/mschrumpf/vale-pretix) repository and follow the instructions there to use Vale on your own writing.
The vale-pretix repo contains custom vocabulary and rules for the pretix documentation.
You can also contribute to the improvement of these rules by following the instructions in the repo readme.

## What not to do when writing documentation for pretix

What follows is an incomplete lists of things you might feel tempted to do when contributing, but which do **not** fit into the concept of the pretix documentation.
This section will explain why these things are **not** a good idea.

### Do not use Artificial Intelligence (AI)

Do **not** use so-called artificial intelligence (AI), for instance Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT.
LLMs can generate text that, on the surface, looks professional and accurate.
But LLMs **cannot** do research.
They **cannot** interact with pretix like a human user can.
The texts that LLMs produce **cannot** be guaranteed to be factually accurate.
They will often contain false information.

As the maxim of quality states, missing information is better than wrong information.

> You can improve the pretix documentation by researching the information and putting it into words yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can improve the pretix documentation by researching the information and writing everything down.
```

Author: I disagree with this suggestion for two reasons: 
1. Contributors should write by themselves, and not write through an LLM. 
2. Contributors should not include every detail they found out during research in their articles.
